# CS340 - SNHU Client/Server Development 22EW3

#### How do you write programs that are maintainable, readable, and adaptable? Especially consider your work on the CRUD Python module from Project One, which you used to connect the dashboard widgets to the database in Project Two. What were the advantages of working in this way? How else could you use this CRUD Python module in the future?

- When it comes to programming, one of the most important things to consider is maintainability. This means that your code is easy to read and understand, which makes it easier to fix and update as needed. The best way to make your code more maintainable is to use a consistent style throughout, and to be clear about what each section of code is doing. Another important factor is readability – your code should be easy to follow, even for someone who isn’t particularly familiar with Python. Another important consideration is adaptability. Your code should be able to handle changes, whether it’s a new requirement from your boss or a change in the underlying data. One way to make your code more adaptable is to use modularity – breaking your code down into smaller, more manageable pieces. This makes it easier to change or update individual sections, without affecting the rest of the code. In my particular case, I found adaptability to be the highlight of my CRUD for connecting the dashboard widgets in Project Two. For example, I could easily change the connection string to the database and add my localhost; I was also able to reuse code developed during previous modules and refine them during the final project.

#### How do you approach a problem as a computer scientist? Consider how you approached the database or dashboard requirements that Grazioso Salvare requested. How did your approach to this project differ from previous assignments in other courses? What techniques or strategies would you use in the future to create databases to meet other client requests?

* As a computer scientist, when I approach a problem I try to break it down into smaller, more manageable parts. This is especially relevant when working on a project for a client, like Grazioso Salvare. The first step was to understand the client's needs, and figure out what was the most effective way to deliver the product. For the database and dashboard requirements requested in the assignment, my approach was to first create a prototype. This is something that I have done in previous courses, and in the future, should I ever need to create databases to meet real clients' requests, I will use a similar approach - break the project down into smaller pieces and get prior feedback from the client along the way to reduce mutual frustration.

#### What do computer scientists do, and why does it matter? How would your work on this type of project help a company, like Grazioso Salvare, to do their work better?

* Computer scientists develop, analyze, design, and maintain software that makes computers function. They also work on implementing various applications and technologies that can make computing easier and more efficient, and this type of work is critical because it helps companies boost their productivity and efficiency. For example, my work on optimizing the search algorithm employed by Grazioso Salvare will help them find products more quickly and accurately, consequently improving their response time to customer inquiries. Computer scientists also focus on developing more efficient ways to use computing technology. For example, I am working on a project that uses machine learning to improve computer systems' predictions accuracy.
